# MusicGenreClassification
This program is able to detect the genre of an audio sample. The main intention is that it be used to detect the genres of songs generated by OpenAI's Jukebox. This means that the program was setup in a way that it is intended to work with 30 secons .wav files only. It splits the file in three for every 10 second interval, and detects the genre for those intervals.

Preprocessing:
The model was trained using a modified version of the FMA_Medium dataset. Initially, the full dataset was sorted based on their genres. After this, data was cleaned (corrupted files removed as per FMA github), and certain genres were removed. This decision was taken based on their popularity (ex: historic genre was ignored) and the amount of songs present in each genre. Additionally, to avoid having an unbalanced dataset, certain songs were also removed. Lastly, to increase the dataset size and to allow the model to detect the genre of a 10 second snippet song, all smaples were split in three. 

Below is a table of the final modified dataset used to train the model:
<<<<<<< HEAD

Genre      | Number of songs
-----------| -------------
Classical  | 1857
Folk       | 1857
Hiphop     | 1857
Jazz       | 1152
Pop        | 1857
Rock       | 1857
Total      | 10,437


Feature extraction:
Libosa was used to extract the MFCC of every snippet and save them in a csv file


Model Creation:
CNN model was created using TensorFlow. KerasTuner was used to optimise the hyper parameters and TensorBoard to track them.

Performance:
Validation accuracy: 0.71 & Training accuracy, precision and f1 score: 0.7
